Rework the plugin adoption process, document the plugin deprecation and removal (#2875)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/plugin-governance/deprecating-or-removing-plugin.adoc

layout: developersection
title: Deprecating or removing a Plugin
references:
- url: https://github.com/jenkins-infra/update-center2
  title: Jenkins Update Center generator
- url: https://plugins.jenkins.io/ui/search/?labels=deprecated
  title: List of the deprecated Jenkins plugins
---

Some plugins may be replaced by others or just become irrelevant (e.g. integration with a service which was shut down).
We do not recommend deleting source code outright, even a stale or no-longer-relevant code can still be educational.
However, we do have a mechanism for deprecating or hiding plugins in the Jenkins update centers.
This page describes the process.

== Deprecating a plugin

. Set a `deprecated` label for the plugin. It can be done in 2 ways:
** Put a `deprecated` topic in the plugin's GitHub repository.
   If you have multiple plugins inside a single repository, it will apply to all of them
** Add a `deprecated` label to the plugin entry in the Update Center's link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/update-center2/blob/master/src/main/resources/label-definitions.properties[label-definitions.properties] file
. Update the plugin's documentation to explain the reason of the deprecation

> . Cut a new release and put the deprecation notice into the changelog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Release the plugin and put the deprecation notice into the changelog
```

> . Release the plugin and put the deprecation notice into the changelog

Reviewer 2: This seems unnecessary and I couldn't find an explanation in the linked mailing list thread. Proposing removal in https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/5786.

Reviewer: I think that the removal makes sense, though there have been several cases where a "tombstone release" of a plugin was needed before it was deprecated.  I believe those were very specific cases and don't need to be covered in the general documentation.
